---
title: "Level set topology optimization for the design of elastic shell solids"
collection: talks
category: conferences
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2024-07-28-wccm16
excerpt: ' '
venue: "16th World Congress on Computational Mechanics and 4th Pan American Congress on Computational Mechanics"
date: 2024-07-28
location: "Vancouver, (BC) Canada"
---

### Abstract

The goal of the project is to develop a topology optimization framework for the design of elastic shell structures. Shells are three-dimensional solid structural elements whose thickness is slender compared to its other dimensions, which makes them highly desirable across several fields of engineering for their structural efficiency. Current simulation tools have become prevalent to assist their characterization, however they are still elusive in providing optimized geometric solutions that comply to the requirements and constraints imposed by the shell geometry. In this work, we combine the Reissner-Mindlin kinematics and the level set method to systematically capture the optimal hole placement within a background shell mid-surface. For a given set of load cases and constraints, we synthesize the best three-dimensional surface shape that minimizes a functional, either compliance and/or stress under a volume constraint. A sensitivity analysis, combining the Hadamard shape derivative and the topological gradient, is conducted in curvilinear coordinate system. For the stress measure, the p-norm function is employed to integrate stress fields into a global stress measure. To the reduce the sensitivity with respect to the starting shape in the algorithm, we make use of the reaction-diffusion approach to update the level set function. To this end, the optimization problem is regularized by introducing fictitious interface energy, which acts as a perimeter minimization constraint. With this method, the desired number and shape of the holes can be tailored adjusting the value of the diffusion coefficient.

The efficiency of the method is compared to an equivalent three-dimensional solid optimization problem, executed under similar conditions on structures of thin-walled geometry. We design several shell structures of increasing complexity, from continuous by part flat plates, to curved surfaces, manifolds and non-manifolds with creases. Each example requires 250 iterations maximum to converge, which take about 10 min on a machine with 12 CPU. In most examples, the last hole nucleation or vanishing occurs around iteration 100, the last iterations only contributing to minor improvements. The obtained geometries are highly regular and compliant with respect to cutting processes. In comparison, the exact same algorithm applied to three-dimensional solid elements takes several hours to accomplish the same number of iterations, yielding a similar outcome, with slightly improved performances, but with an organic aspect. Finally, the level set description enables to rapidly extract the surface which can be converted into B-Rep and used subsequently in CAD and CAM software.