---
title: "Level Set Topology Optimization with Electro-Chemo-Mechanical Modeling for Designing Lithium-Ion Battery Cells"
collection: talks
category: conferences
type: "Presentation"
permalink: /talks/2025-07-28-wccm16
excerpt: ' '
venue: "16th World Congress on Structural and Multidisciplinary Optimization"
date: 2025-05-20
location: "Kobe, Japan"
---

### Abstract

Batteries are electrochemical energy storage devices which represent a critical technology in the transition to climate neutrality, supporting the adoption of intermittent renewable energy sources and enabling the electrification for long-range vehicles. Current batteries not only fall short of required power density demands but also present safety and reliability challenges. Shaping three-dimensional battery electrodes offers a promising strategy to enhance power and energy densities compared to traditional planar designs while preserving structural integrity and safety. Here we present a multidisciplinary modeling and optimization framework to assist the design for next generation batteries.

We apply our level set topology optimization method [1] to systematically track and synthesize a configuration for the positive (cathode) and negative (anode) electrodes within a rectangular domain. The system consists of three materials, namely the two porous electrodes (anode and cathode), and a separator, for which we determine the optimal placement. For a given set of load cases and constraints, we determine the optimal cell design which maximizes energy storage. The Doyle-Fuller-Newman (DFN) model [2], commonly considered high fidelity model today, forms the foundation of our electrochemistry model. This DFN model integrates mass and charge conservations, reaction kinetics, and a simplified microscale structure. To account for the cell geometry, we included a full description of the macroscopic behavior on top of a one-dimensional microscale in spherical coordinates to our model. The model is then coupled to linear mechanics. Eigenstrain fields arise from changes in lithium concentration, while chemical reaction rate and diffusion depend on the stress field during charge-discharge. We derive sensitivities using the discrete adjoint method. Special attention is given to handling these sensitivities due to the transient and nonlinear nature of the DFN model. We further enforce a penalization to ensure that the anode and cathode do not touch, i.e., preventing short circuits.

Each physics is solved using the finite element method in FeniCSx, while the coupling is handled by the OpenMDAO library. We compare multiple designs generated for different boundary conditions, and material properties. The presented methodology is versatile and can be applied to gain insights in battery chemistries, material and form factors.

### References

[1] S. Kambampati, C. M. Jauregui, ParaLeSTO (2.0.0). Zenodo, 2023. https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.7613753
[2] M. Doyle, T. Fuller, J. Newman, Modeling of Galvanostatic Charge and Discharge of the Lithium/Polymer/Insertion, Journal of The Electrochemical Society, 140 (6), 1526-1533, 1993.