---
title: "Optimization-driven electro-chemo-mechanical modeling for solid-state lithium-ion battery design"
collection: talks
category: conferences
type: "Presentation"
permalink: /talks/2025-07-22-usnccm18
excerpt: ' '
venue: "18th U.S. National Congress on Computational Mechanics"
date: 2025-07-22
location: "Chicago, (IL) USA"
---

### Abstract

Batteries are vital electrochemical energy storage devices that underpin the transition to climate neutrality by supporting renewable energy adoption and enabling the electrification of vehicles. However, present day batteries fall short in power density and present safety and reliability challenges. All-solid-state batteries (ASSBs) have garnered considerable interest for their potential to address these limitations, yet they remain underexplored through multiphysics modeling approaches, despite the clear advantages such models offer, such as enabling precise state identification, prediction, and optimized cell design. This work presents an optimization framework for the design of next-generation lithium-ion batteries. 

The ASSB system comprises two porous composite electrodes (anode and cathode) and a separator (solid electrolyte), optimized for placement. The Doyle-Fuller-Newman (DFN) model, known for its high fidelity in simulating lithium-ion battery behavior at low-to-medium C-rates, forms the foundation of our electrochemistry model. This multiscale model integrates mass and charge conservation, empirical reaction kinetics, and a simplified microscale structure. Herein, the lithium-ion transport equations were adapted for single-ion conductive electrolytes, where ions move via lattice "hopping", yielding uniform lithium concentrations in the electrolyte. The macroscopic cell's full geometric details are accounted on top of a one-dimensional description in spherical coordinates for the microscale.

The above electrochemistry model is then coupled with mechanics, initially assuming linear, isotropic, elastic material behavior to validate the model before integrating more complex material properties. A strong coupling is considered between eigenstrain fields and on surface lithium concentration, affecting the reaction, the diffusion and the stress field during charge-discharge. Insights obtained from imaging performed on electrodes (e.g., metal oxides composite cathode) allows further to define representative unit cells and extract macroscopic strain fields.

The implementation has been carried out using FeniCSx, an open-source computing platform for solving Partial Differential Equations (PDEs) with the Finite Element Method (FEM), which is a powerful, flexible, and efficient package with high-level Python interface. The coupling between mechanics and electrochemistry is handled by the OpenMDAO (multidisciplinary design, analysis, and optimization) library, an open-source framework with high-level Python interface for multidisciplinary design, analysis, and optimization (MDAO) that facilitates coupling and efficient collaboration between different models or simulation codes. The results obtained from this model are validated against standard software, as well as experimental campaign run on pouch cells. The presented methodology can be extended to run multiphysics and multi objective optimization problems and can be applied to different battery chemistries, form factors, and power profiles.